MTM-63375 - Improve Documentation of Messaging Service Quotas (#3481)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/data-broker/ms-data-broker-bundle/using-ms-data-broker.md

The microservice-based data broker stores messages persistently using the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Messaging Service until they are successfully delivered to the destination tenant.
To optimize resource usage, the Messaging Service imposes storage limits and a message time-to-live (TTL) on persistently stored messages.
See [service quotas](/service-terms/quotas/#realtime-apis) for details of the default quotas and TTL used by the microservice-based data broker.

> When the backing quota limit has reached:

Reviewer: Not 100% sure, but shouldn´t it be "has been reached"?

Reviewer 2: I agree.

Reviewer 3: Also fix the typo: "backlog" quota, not "backing".

> When the backing quota limit has reached:

Reviewer 3: Issue: This part is all about the data broker, correct? The way a user interacts with the broker is very different from (say) N2.0, where they are a lot closer to the underlying messaging bus. In the broker use case the consumer is in the microservice (so the user gets no say in whether it is connected or not) and problems generally only occur if 1) the microservice can't deliver messages to the destination tenant, or 2) it can deliver them but not fast enough, so the backlog eventually fills up. There are a few different causes of (1), mostly user error.

Anyway, the effect of the backlog quota being reached, irrespective of why, is that a REST client PUTting or POSTing a request that should be forwarded over the broker connection, will receive an HTTP 500 response. A Core MQTT client will get a message on the error topic - I don't remember exactly what that looks like. This is the user-visible outcome of a full backlog that needs to be documented.

> *	Older undelivered messages may be discarded to make room for new ones.

Reviewer 2: Older messages are discarded if they reach their  `TTL.` (this might belong in the TTL section, there is interplay between backlog and TTL)).
TTL will provide some new room in the bacllog until the space from them is once again filled. This bouncing between baklog full state and space available due old older message TTL can continue on, causing variation in the occurrence of backlog quotas and the ability to publish new messages.

*	Consumers reconnecting after a disconnection may receive outdated or partial data.
*	The system may apply back-pressure, throttle delivery, or even drop messages, depending on usage patterns and load.

> * Message ordering may be affected if backlog pruning occurs.

Reviewer 3: Outdated - Yes, if you mean messages that have been sitting on the queue waiting to be delivered.
Partial - Not sure what this means.
Back-pressure - Yes, the HTTP 500 response is the visible effect of this.
Throttling - No, we don't do any throttling.
Drop messages - No, we will deliver every message we accept, unless it is dropped due to TTL expiry.
Message ordering - No, messages will always be delivered in the order they were sent by the client.

To avoid hitting the backlog limit and ensure reliable message consumption:

> *	Consume or acknowledge messages frequently to reduce backlog buildup.

Reviewer 3: Not so meaningful for the data broker where the user has no control over consumer connection or acknowledgement. What they need to do is make sure their destination tenant is working and receiving the forwarded messages.

> *	Monitor backlog size using available metrics and alerting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*	Monitor the level of free backlog space using available metrics and alerting.
```

> *	Monitor backlog size using available metrics and alerting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*	Monitor the level of free backlog space using the available metrics and alerting.
```

> *	Monitor backlog size using available metrics and alerting.

Reviewer 3: We don't have the M&M feature for data broker (yet) and customers don't have access to our monitoring, so we probably need to be a bit more specific here. There are alarms raised in various situations (documented elsewhere in this section) that might indicate messages not being forwarded. They should also pay attention to the data broker microservice log which will report any problems delivering to the destination tenant.

> *	Avoid extended consumer downtimes without reconnecting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*	Avoid extended consumer downtimes without reconnecting to prevent the backlog building up.
```

> *	If persistent disconnections are expected, consider implementing filtering or message expiry logic at the application level.

Reviewer 2: Or request a bigger backlog - higher message rates might require bigger backlog sizes to cope with reasonable levels of outage/downtime of the destination Cumulocity system

The microservice-based data broker stores messages persistently using the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Messaging Service until they are successfully delivered to the destination tenant.
To optimize resource usage, the Messaging Service imposes storage limits and a message time-to-live (TTL) on persistently stored messages.

> The consumer under the microservice-based data broker is within the microservice and therefore have no control over the microservice connection. Messages are also handed off internally by microservice.

Reviewer 3: Issue: Not sure I really understand what this is trying to say, or if it helps the user. Can you clarify?

> See [service quotas](/service-terms/quotas/#realtime-apis) for details of the default quotas and TTL used by the microservice-based data broker.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Before this, it would be great to have a high-level user-friendly description of what these quotas actually are. The change log announcement mentioned elsewhere in this task does this quite well (if I say so myself) so some of that text could be copied: https://cumulocity.com/docs/change-logs/?component=.component-messaging-service#cumulocity-undefined-advance-notice-of-reduced-storage-limits-for-notifications-2.0-and-microservice-based-data-broker

**When the backlog quota limit has been reached:**

> *	Older messages will be discarded once they reach their TTL to provide room in the backlog until for new messages until the space is filled again.

Reviewer 3: Issue: Gary might disagree with me but I would personally separate the discussion of the backlog quota and the TTL. This statement isn't *wrong* but it doesn't really describe what happens when the backlog is full - it's explaining what happens when the TTL is reached for a message. A side effect of that is that the backlog is no longer full.

* Client is unable to publish new messages if the backlog quotas is full.
* Consumers reconnecting after a disconnection may receive outdated messages that have been sitting on the queue waiting to be delivered.

> *	The system may apply back-pressure - the HTTP 500 response is the visible effect of this and will remain until the backlog pressure eases to accept new messages being published by the client.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: IMHO this one needs to be emphasised more. It is the main user-visible impact of a full backlog for a data broker user. Users should also be aware that requests in `PERSISTENT` mode will still update the database, even if they cannot be published to the data broker and return a 500 response.

> * Message ordering may be affected if backlog pruning occurs.

Reviewer 3: Issue: Not true, and contradicts the statement two lines further down.

* No messages will be dropped unless TTL has reached and will remain on the backlog queue.
* Messages will always be delivered in the order they were sent by the client.

**To avoid hitting the backlog limit and ensure reliable message consumption:**
* Ensure the destination tenant is working and receiving forwarded messages to reduce backlog build-up as the user has no control over the consumer connection or acknowledgement.

> *	Monitor the level of free backlog space using the available metrics and alerting.

Reviewer 3: Question: How do I do that?

Author: I followed your comment from earlier PR comment and added it in. Honestly, I don't know personally myself and wasn't informed this information further.

The microservice-based data broker stores messages persistently using the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Messaging Service until they are successfully delivered to the destination tenant.
To optimize resource usage, the Messaging Service imposes storage limits and a message time-to-live (TTL) on persistently stored messages.

Consumers using the microservice-based data broker will have no control over the microservice connection. Messages are handed off internally by the microservice.

Notifications 2.0 enforces a strict message backlog limit to prevent excessive resource usage and to ensure timely delivery of notifications.

Any unacknowledged messages will be automatically deleted if they have been on the backlog for longer than the TTL (Time to Live) limit. This policy helps to limit overall resource usage and reduces the need to process outdated data after a prolonged disconnection of a consumer or destination tenant.

> The default backlog quota limit and Time to Live (TTL) is defined and found in the [service quotas](/service-terms/quotas/#realtime-apis) documentation for details of the default quotas and TTL used by the microservice-based data broker.

Reviewer: This sentence has some duplicate content.

**When the backlog quota limit has been reached:**

> *	Older messages that's been unable to be delivered will continue consume space in the backlog causing eventual build up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Older messages that have been unable to be delivered will continue to consume space in the backlog, causing eventual buildup.
```

> * All messages in the backlog that's undelivered will be deleted once they reach their TTL to provide room new messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All messages in the backlog that are undelivered will be deleted once they reach their TTL to provide room for new messages.
```

> * Client is unable to publish new messages if the backlog quotas is full.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The client is unable to publish new messages if the backlog quota is full.
```

* Consumers reconnecting after a disconnection may receive outdated messages that have been sitting on the queue waiting to be delivered.
*	The system may apply back-pressure - Requests in PERSISTENT mode will still update the database even if they cannot be published to the data broker and return a 500 response. The HTTP 500 response is the visible effect of this and will remain until the backlog pressure eases to accept new messages being published by the client.
* No messages sitting in the backlog will be dropped unless their TTL has reached.

> * Messages will always be delivered in the order they were sent by the client unless it can't be delivered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Messages are always delivered in the order the client sent them unless they can't be delivered.
```

**To avoid hitting the backlog limit and ensure reliable message consumption:**

> * Ensure the destination tenant is working and receiving forwarded messages to reduce backlog build-up as the user has no control over the consumer connection or acknowledgement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure the destination tenant is working and receiving forwarded messages to reduce backlog buildup, as the user has no control over the consumer connection or acknowledgement.
```

*	Monitor the level of free backlog space using the available metrics and alerting.

> *	Avoid extended consumer downtime without reconnecting to prevent the backlog building up. Destination tenant that's disconnected is what causes the backlog to fill up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*	Avoid extended consumer downtime without reconnecting to prevent the backlog building up. A disconnected destination tenant is what causes the backlog to fill up.
```

> *	If persistent disconnections are expected, consider requesting a bigger backlog - higher message rates might require bigger backlog sizes to cope with reasonable levels of outage/downtime of the destination Cumulocity system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*	If persistent disconnections are expected, consider requesting a bigger backlog - higher message rates might require bigger backlog sizes to cope with reasonable levels of outage/downtime of the destination {{< product-c8y-iot >}} system.
```

The microservice-based data broker stores messages persistently using the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Messaging Service until they are successfully delivered to the destination tenant.
To optimize resource usage, the Messaging Service imposes storage limits and a message time-to-live (TTL) on persistently stored messages.

> See the [service quotas](/service-terms/quotas/#realtime-apis) documentation for details of the default limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [service quotas](/service-terms/quotas/#realtime-apis) documentation for details on the default limits.
```

These limits are configurable on a per-tenant basis.
If your use case requires a different configuration, or if you have any questions or concerns, please contact [product support](https://cumulocity.com/docs/additional-resources/contacting-support/).

> #### Message backlog quota

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Message backlog quota {#message-block-quota}
```

> #### Message backlog quota {#message-block-quota}

Reviewer 3: Typo
```suggestion
#### Message backlog quota {#message-backlog-quota}
```

Persistent messages are stored in a “backlog” until they are delivered to the destination tenant.
The maximum size of a backlog is determined by the “backlog quota” limit, which directly affects the number of messages that can be stored and therefore the resource consumption of the platform.
If the quota limit is reached, no new messages can be added to the backlog until some older messages have been delivered, or deleted due to their TTL expiring.
A separate backlog exists for each data broker connector.

If the backlog for a data broker connector has reached its quota limit, any API request to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform that would be forwarded by that connector will receive HTTP response code 500.

> For example, a POST request to the `/measurement/measurements` API endpoint will return the 500 response code if there is a data broker connector that should forward the new measurement, but that cannot do so because its backlog is full. Note that for requests using the PERSISTENT or QUIESCENT [processing modes](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#section/REST-implementation/HTTP-usage), the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} operational store will still be updated. This can lead to duplicated entires in the operational store if applications blindly retry failed requests.

Reviewer 3: Question: Do you think this paragraph is clear enough? It's a pretty simple concept but actually quite hard to put into words. On the other hand I think a diagram would be overkill.

Author: It makes sense to me, but I'm not sure how other may feel. Best to get the rest of the reviewer's thoughts.

> For example, a POST request to the `/measurement/measurements` API endpoint will return the 500 response code if there is a data broker connector that should forward the new measurement, but that cannot do so because its backlog is full. Note that for requests using the PERSISTENT or QUIESCENT [processing modes](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#section/REST-implementation/HTTP-usage), the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} operational store will still be updated. This can lead to duplicated entires in the operational store if applications blindly retry failed requests.

Reviewer 3: Typo:
```suggestion
If the backlog for a data broker connector has reached its quota limit, any API request to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform that would be forwarded by that connector will receive HTTP response code 500.
For example, a POST request to the `/measurement/measurements` API endpoint will return the 500 response code if there is a data broker connector that should forward the new measurement, but that cannot do so because its backlog is full. Note that for requests using the PERSISTENT or QUIESCENT [processing modes](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#section/REST-implementation/HTTP-usage), the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} operational store will still be updated. This can lead to duplicated entries in the operational store if applications blindly retry failed requests.
```

> #### Message time-to-live

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Message time-to-live {#message-time-to-live}
```

Any undelivered messages will be automatically deleted if they have been on the backlog for longer than the TTL limit. This policy helps to limit overall resource usage and reduces the need to process outdated data after a prolonged disconnection of a consumer or destination tenant.

No message will ever be deleted from the backlog unless it reaches its TTL limit.
Messages will always be delivered to the destination tenant in the order they were received by the source tenant.

> #### Best practices to ensure reliable data broker operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Best practices to ensure reliable data broker operation {# best-practices-for-reliable-data-broker-operation}
```

Applications using the microservice-based data broker do not have any direct control over the operation of the microservice.
These best practices will help to ensure that the microservice can reliably deliver messages to the destination tenant, and avoid requests failing due to reaching the backlog quota limit:

* A destination tenant that is unreachable, for example due to a network outage or changed credentials, is the most common reason for a data broker backlog to fill up.
  Therefore, monitor the destination tenant to ensure that it is reachable and receiving forwarded messages.
*	Also monitor the alarms and `databroker-agent-server` microservice logs on the source tenant.
*	If persistent or frequent disconnections are expected, consider requesting a larger backlog quota or TTL.
  Higher message rates might require a larger backlog to cope with reasonable levels of downtime of the destination tenant.
  Longer disconnections might require a larger TTL to prevent messages from being deleted before they can be delivered.

> * Consider adjusting the filters on the data broker connector to send fewer messages to the destination tenant.

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: Triggered by inconsistent spacing :-) It looks like a couple of tabs crept in so it probably looked OK in an editor.
```suggestion
* A destination tenant that is unreachable, for example due to a network outage or changed credentials, is the most common reason for a data broker backlog to fill up.
  Therefore, monitor the destination tenant to ensure that it is reachable and receiving forwarded messages.
* Also monitor the alarms and `databroker-agent-server` microservice logs on the source tenant.
* If persistent or frequent disconnections are expected, consider requesting a larger backlog quota or TTL.
  Higher message rates might require a larger backlog to cope with reasonable levels of downtime of the destination tenant.
  Longer disconnections might require a larger TTL to prevent messages from being deleted before they can be delivered.
* Consider adjusting the filters on the data broker connector to send fewer messages to the destination tenant.
```
